>> Speaker 1: What I want you to do here,
you're gonna leave your
API server running.
And for now I'm gonna shut off Webpack.
And I'm gonna change that
to be yarn watch because
we still need to compile our Webpack code.
But we're not going to be reading
from the dev server anymore.
We're going got be requesting it from
our Expressor that we just wrote.
And now, we're going to do
NODE_ENV=server node server.js.
>> Speaker 1: So now it says,
listening on 8080.
So if I come onto here and
refresh 8080 on here.
Notice we're still getting our website and
everything is kind of fine.
I don't think we're gonna
get any console errors.
>> Speaker 1: We screwed up hot reload.
I will show you how to
fix hot reload with this.
But that's why it's saying,
hey I'm trying to find hot reload,
that's because we're not talking
to the dev server anymore,
we're talking to the node
server that we wrote, right?
But now what's more interesting about
this, this is what it was before, right?
Totally empty, if I refresh, look at how
much stuff now is coming down, right?
This is a fully rendered experience.
>> Speaker 1: Which is pretty cool right?
Now something I wanna show you that's
perhaps even more impressive about this.
Oops, so I'm gonna come in here,
and I'm gonna click right there.
>> Speaker 1: I forgot how to
do this with Chrome dev tools.
Settings.
>> Speaker 1: I am going
to disable JavaScript.
Wherever disable JavaScript is.
>> Speaker 2: You passed it,
it was on the right under [INAUDIBLE].
>> Speaker 1: Disable JavaScript, right?
So now as long as the dev tools are open,
JavaScript is gonna be disabled.
So now if I refresh the page.
>> Speaker 1: [LAUGH] you
know what's going on here?
It's styles components doesn't
work without JavaScript.
That's a problem.
So, that's something you accept
when you take on styles components.
But notice that everything is still
actually being rendered out okay.
I can actually click on to Game of Thrones
and it's gonna take me into the page.
I can go back.
I can click S video.
So I'm actually able to,
besides the styles component stuff,
I'm able to still navigate my site, right?
Because what's happening,
if you look at my server here,
it's just routing to each one of these.
It's making a full server request, right?
The server side rendering that code, and
then just sending it back down to you,
right?
So we made our page work
without JavaScript.
Really, anymore,
that's not really much of a problem.
Almost every client that's going to
be accessing your page is gonna have
JavaScript enabled.
But let's say you have a JavaScript error,
right?
You're still going to be able to work,
It's kind of this progressive enhancement
idea that's typically a pretty good idea,
I would say, right?
>> Speaker 1: So, I think that's really
cool, that's because it is really cool.
If you weren't using styled components,
that would be a little bit more
impressive, but I digress.
Any questions about
service side rendering?
>> Speaker 2: So, the idea is just
that the first page that the client
loads is pre-rendered and
once React takes over,
it goes back to it's old single
page application and behavior?
>> Speaker 1: Exactly.
So, what this is gonna buy for you.
One it's gonna buy you a lot with Google,
right?
Because you're gonna send that markup
faster which Google is then going to rank
higher and it's going to be more
controllable in a sense that, yes
the Google crawler does run JavaScript,
but it's imperfect for sure If you send
a predetermined markup, you get to control
what Google's scrolling over, right?
So it's a big SCO in for sure.
It's a big win for
perceived web performance, right?
If you're on 2G connection in the middle
of nowhere, or just maybe you're stuck
on crappy wi-fi or something like that,
this is gonna load a whole lot faster.
And there's just tons and tons and
tons of data out there that says,
if you load faster,
users will give you more money, right?
In some capacity.
Whether that's more page clicks,
to get more ad revenue,
or your funnel's faster on your
e-commerce website, all of that, right?
So this is a win.
If you can service side render,
I recommend it.
>> Speaker 1: Any other questions?
>> Speaker 3: And
this is to get you ready to put
your site on to production?
>> Speaker 1: Mm-hm.
So you are typically are gonna do
the service side rendering I would say,
it doesn't always have to be just for
a production, but yeah.
But yeah, you definitely want
to be doing a production.
What I would do in this particular case,
my God, look at that.
[LAUGH] That's the hot module
reload just losing its mind.
I would do the webpack dev server for
local development, because that's a really
nice developer experience, and you don't
care if it's server-side rendering or not.
And then when I send it off to production,
I'll let server-side rendering
happen just in production.
>> Speaker 2: And you said hopefully when
you click on the button, React is loaded.
What happens if React hasn't loaded yet?
>> Speaker 1: What I just showed you here,
our site works without JavaScript, right?
Because that's actually a real link,
it's an A tag that goes to that, so
it's gonna hit your server again,
make a full request, and come back.
So, in that particular case,
everything's gonna work.
However if it's something
that pops up a modal or
something like that,
it's just not gonna work, right?
Nothing's gonna happen.
However.
>> Speaker 2: What about our dispatch?
>> Speaker 1: For sure.
>> Speaker 2: Events.
>> Speaker 1: Yeah, so what'll happen
then if I'm able to type in there
before React and Redux have bootstrapped?
It's gonna blow it away, right?
Because it's gonna bootstrap and
say my state is actually empty string.
However, that's usually not a problem.
We're talking like,
you're gonna load that first pay load, and
then within a 100 milliseconds you're
gonna get the JS and once the js is down,
that parsing and bootstrapping is
gonna be 5 to 15 milliseconds at most.
Users don't make decisions that fast,
right?
You would have to be like prepared
with your fast twitch muscles,
okay now click it, right?
Even on a slow connection ,right?
In other words it's not something I
find myself concerned a lot with.
I mean definitely instruments if that
is something you're worried about.
But it has yet to be a problem for me.
>> Speaker 2: It is good to keep in mind,
especially on a set like this where
downloading the JavaScript will
contend with all the posters, right?
If you have large images or something.
And you can only download so
many of those in parallel, and, yeah.
>> Speaker 1: Most definitely, I mean
this is loading large posters, right?
Because I'm super lazy and
I didn't wanna downscale them.
[LAUGH] But, you definitely should worry
about things like that like compressing
your images, making sure that right,
like you have like thumbnails for
the right pages and
full-size for the other ones.
For sure.
>> Speaker 1: Yeah, Mark.
>> Speaker 4: If you make
the API calls to node,
how do you make sense or
is that rendering?
>> Speaker 1: So this is you are getting
into the questions about hydration and
things like that.
So for example,
if I click on here, ideally,
when I was service side rendering, I would
not come down and make a request, right?
Node.
>> Speaker 1: Ideally,
I would come to here and
I wouldn't be making this request, right?
I would already have that loaded because
I loaded it from the server, right?
This is a really touchy situation
to get this correct, right?
So a big key about server-side rendering
which I actually should address,
is if you come in here, and we're gonna
zoom in, and we're going to look for
this thing right here.
Data-react-checksum.
So this is basically,
your app gets run through this hashing
algorithm they generate a hash.
Then when you get down to the client,
it's going to render for the first time,
run the hashing algorithm again, and
make sure that those hashes match.
So that you're generating the same markup
on the server as you are on the client.
If those mismatch,
in fact I'll show you how you can,
we'll just make a mismatch really quick.
If I put, I don't know,
like here, I'm just gonna put
an h1 that's going to
render out math.random.
>> Speaker 1: So this will be
different on the client, right?
Because every time you're on math.random,
it's gonna give you a different output, so
it'll be different on the client
than it is on the server.
So if I load this again, it's gonna say,
what the hell are you doing?
>> Speaker 1: So.
>> Speaker 1: Right there, that's what I'm
talking about it says, hey React tried to
reuse the markup that you sent down
there but, hey you messed up, right?
What I got on the client is different
than what I got on the server,
I'm gonna blow everything away.
So all of those performance benefits
are actually now worse right?
Because you had to pay all the extra costs
to get all that server side rendering
done, it's gonna say, you messed up.
I'm just gonna blow it away and
then restart.
So, that's something you definitely
have to be careful about.
So, getting into the hydration
side of things, getting it to have
the ability to have API requests
before they're made, is tough, right?
Because when you first create your app,
you're doing with the thought in mind that
it's going to request it from the API.
So with Redux, it's actually not too bad,
you just have to make sure that you're
providing the same initial state.
So you have to have a kind
of variable initial state,
based on if the context's available or
not.
But the problem with that is,
you have to make sure the context is both
available on the server and on the client.
Plus it can still do it if you
navigate to that page without
that being hydrated, right?
So, what I'm trying to
paint a picture of here is,
it's a bit of a complicated mess to
kind of preempt those API requests, and
you have to weigh your answers of,
is this worth it to me to try and do?
It's possible for sure.
But it's tough.
And we're actually gonna deal with this
problem with even more in depths here in
just a second because we're gonna do code
splitting, which compounds this problem.